---
title: "PI Summit 2021 - Deep Learning in Automating Breast Cancer Diagnosis from Microscopy Images"
collection: talks
type: "Conference Poster Presentation"
permalink: /talks/2021-05-05-talk-1
venue: "2021 Pathology Informatics Summit (PI Summit 2021)"
date: 2021-05-05
location: "Virtual"
---

Quincy Gu presented at the 2021 Pathology Informatics Summit (PI Summit 2021) on May 5, 2021. 

Details of this presentation could be found in below:
* Title: Deep Learning in Automating Breast Cancer Diagnosis from Microscopy Images
* Abstract:
    * Context:
        * Breast cancer is one of the most common cancers in women. With early diagnosis, some breast cancers are highly curable. However, the concordance rate of breast cancer diagnosis from histology slides by pathologists is unacceptably low. Classifying normal versus tumor breast tissues from breast histology microscopy images is an ideal case to use for deep learning and could help to more reproducibly diagnose breast cancer.
    * Methods and Material:
        * Using 42 combinations of deep learning models, image data pre-processing techniques, and hyperparameter configruations, we tested the accuracy of tumor versus normal classification using the BreAst Cancer Histology (BACH) dataset.
        * This approach included two steps:
            * We first tested the patch-level validation accuracy of tumor versus normal classification for 16 combinations of non-specialized deep learning models, and hyperparameter configurations, and choose the odel with the highest patch-level validation accuracy.
            * Then we computed the slide-level validation accuracy of the selected models and compared them with 26 hyperparameter sets of a pathology-specific attention based multiple instance learning (CLAM) model.
    * Results:
        * 2 generic models (i.e., one-shot learning and the DenseNet201 with highly tuned parameters) achieved a 94% slide-level validation accuracy compared to a only 88% for the pathology-specific model.
    * Conclusions:
        * The combination of image data pre-processing and hyperparameter configurations have a direct impact on the performance of deep neural networks for image classification. To identify a well-performing deep neural network to classify tumor versus normal breast histology, researchers should not only focus on developing new models specifically for digital pathology, since hyperparameter tuning for existing deep neural networks in the computer vision field could also achieve a high prediction accuracy.
    * Keywords: 
        * Breast Cancer
        * Microscopy Images
        * Deep Learning
