---
title: "Mayo Clinic Machine & Deep Learning Journal Club - Deep Learning in Automating Breast Cancer Diagnosis from Microscopy Images"
collection: talks
type: "Journal Club Presentation"
permalink: /talks/2021-10-25-talk-1
venue: "Mayo Clinic, Division of Bioinformatics and Computational Biology, Department of Quantitative Health Sciences"
date: 2021-10-25
location: "Rochester, Minnesota"
---

Quincy Gu presented at Mayo Clinic Machine & Deep Learning Journal Club on October 25, 2021. The recording of this talk has been made available to the audience via [Mayo Clinic Video Exchange](https://videoexchange.mayo.edu/media/Quincy+Gu+%7C+10+25+21/1_wniwwfir/191597143).
Note that if you would like to watch the presentation recording, you might need to be a Mayo Clinic employee, student, or a contractor who should either watch this recording on any Mayo Clinic campuses, or have the VPN access to Mayo Clinic network. If you are an external member of Mayo Clinic, and you also interested in this presentation. Feel free to reach out to me directly via email or any other social medial platform. More details on how to find me are in the left-hand sidebar. Thanks for your interests in this talk.

Details of this presentation could be found in below:
* Title: Deep Learning in Automating Breast Cancer Diagnosis from Microscopy Images
* Abstract:
    * Context:
        * Breast cancer is one of the most common cancers in women. With early diagnosis, some breast cancers are highly curable. However, the concordance rate of breast cancer diagnosis from histology slides by pathologists is unacceptably low. Classifying normal versus tumor breast tissues from breast histology microscopy images is an ideal case to use for deep learning and could help to more reproducibly diagnose breast cancer.
    * Methods and Material:
        * Using 42 combinations of deep learning models, image data pre-processing techniques, and hyperparameter configruations, we tested the accuracy of tumor versus normal classification using the BreAst Cancer Histology (BACH) dataset.
        * This approach included two steps:
            * We first tested the patch-level validation accuracy of tumor versus normal classification for 16 combinations of non-specialized deep learning models, and hyperparameter configurations, and choose the odel with the highest patch-level validation accuracy.
            * Then we computed the slide-level validation accuracy of the selected models and compared them with 26 hyperparameter sets of a pathology-specific attention based multiple instance learning (CLAM) model.
    * Results:
        * 2 generic models (i.e., one-shot learning and the DenseNet201 with highly tuned parameters) achieved a 94% slide-level validation accuracy compared to a only 88% for the pathology-specific model.
    * Conclusions:
        * The combination of image data pre-processing and hyperparameter configurations have a direct impact on the performance of deep neural networks for image classification. To identify a well-performing deep neural network to classify tumor versus normal breast histology, researchers should not only focus on developing new models specifically for digital pathology, since hyperparameter tuning for existing deep neural networks in the computer vision field could also achieve a high prediction accuracy.
    * Keywords: 
        * Breast Cancer
        * Microscopy Images
        * Deep Learning